Mk 5056  how to sections (#2)
oduameh/hydra: docs/docs/how-to/submit-transaction.md

# Submit a transaction

> This section describes how to submit a transaction to an already open Head using the `NewTx` command of the WebSocket API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to submit a transaction to an already open head using the `NewTx` command of the WebSocket API.
```

> First, query the UTXO available in the Head:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, query the UTXO available in the head:
```

}
```

> Assume the single UTXO is owned by `some-payment-key.sk` and you wish to transfer all of it to a different address. The following commands use cardano-cli to construct and sign a transaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming the single UTXO is owned by `some-payment-key.sk` and you want to send all of it to another address, you can use `cardano-cli` (or your preferred transaction builder) to construct and sign a transaction:
```

cat tx-signed.json | jq -c '{tag: "NewTx", transaction: .}'
```

This command generates a message suitable for submission to the `hydra-node` via a WebSocket connection. If `hydra-node` operates on the default port `4001`, the message can be submitted using `websocat`:

```shell
cat tx-signed.json | jq -c '{tag: "NewTx", transaction: .}' | websocat "ws://127.0.0.1:4001?history=no"
```

> The transaction will be validated by all connected `hydra-node` instances. It will result in either a `TxInvalid` message, providing a reason for rejection, or a `TxValid` message followed by a `SnapshotConfirmed`, updating the UTXO available in the Head shortly thereafter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transaction will be validated by all connected `hydra-node` instances. It will result in either a `TxInvalid` message, providing a reason for rejection, or a `TxValid` message followed by a `SnapshotConfirmed`, updating the UTXO available in the head shortly after that.
```
